The following is information about the eye-tracking technology used in this
experiment. Please read the text aloud so the computer can calibrate to your voice. 
^
During this study you will be using eye-tracking technology. Each eye tracking set
consists of two infrared cameras. There are two sets per person, four cameras total.
The camera sets each have infrared emitters, which help the cameras to see you. The
software detects glints in your eyes from the infrared emitters and can then detect
where you are looking. This technology is very accurate in that if you are looking at
a computer monitor, the software can tell you exactly what pixel you are looking at.
^
The software is not limited to just computer screens. It can also detect where in
three-dimensional space you are focusing. For instance, if you are looking at the
person sitting across from you, the software can tell us the exact X, Y, and Z location
of where you are focusing. Along with eye tracking, the software can track facial
features. With this information we can track your lips to determine if you are
smiling or frowning. This type of technology is most commonly used in airplanes to
track where the pilot is looking. 
^
You were asked not to wear glasses during this study. That is because the cameras
will detect other light reflecting off them that isn’t from your eyes. This confusion
happens during the calibration process. The process of calibrating the cameras
consists of a few different steps. First, we set what is called a “head model”. This is
where the machine detects tracking points on your face and eyes. We need to do
this for both of the camera sets in front of you. This process can be a little awkward
because you will see your face up close on the computer screen. Just bear with us
though, it will be over shortly.
^
Then, we calibrate the gaze. This portion consists of looking directly into each
camera in the set. This will detect the ocular distance between your eyes. This helps
us get more precise data out of the process. Once the head model is set and your
gaze is calibrated, we then need to start logging data. This way we can go back to the
data later and study it.
^
After all that is done the final step is to link the two data streams together. We link
the data from two camera sets because this gives us better quality of data overall, as
well as allowing us to track a wider range of head and eye movement and rotation.
During the test you can look anywhere in the room and rotate your head however
you want. However, it is very important to stay sitting at the same height so that you
do not slip out of the frame.
^
The following are the instructions for the game you will be playing after the voice
calibration process. Please read them aloud.

Thank you for participating in our experiment. Before we begin we will go over the
controls and objectives for the game you will be playing.
^
How do I move my character?
Move the mouse to control where you are looking. Use the W key to move your
character forward, the A key to move your character left, the S key to move your
character backwards and the D key to move your character right. The spacebar
key will make your character jump. Jumping is useful for showing your teammates
where you are. The E key will magnify your vision; this can be useful for examining
things closely.
^
What is the objective of the game?
In the game you will be solving a puzzle by placing colored blocks into a specific
pattern. The puzzle will be made up of red, blue, yellow, orange, and purple blocks.
Your objective is to solve the puzzle as quickly as possible. Time is of the essence.
There will be a scoreboard visible for your benefit. The scoreboard will display the
number of correct and incorrect blocks placed. The scoreboard will also display the
amount of time elapsed. The different colored blocks used for solving the puzzle will
begin in the middle of the room. Once the puzzle is complete, the game will end. We
will come back into the room after about thirty seconds, so please do not remove
any equipment till we return into the room; you may talk once the game is complete.
^
How do I pick up a block?
To pick up a block use the left mouse click while your cursor is over the block. You
may only hold one block at a time. Click the mouse again to put the block down. You
can place a block into the puzzle or on the ground. You cannot hand a block off to
another player, nor can you take a block from another players possession. So to pass
off a block, one player will put a block down and then the other will pick it up. In the
game there may be more objects you can pick up, such as other blocks. 
^
How can I work with my team?
While playing the game, you may not verbally communicate with your teammates.
However, you are encouraged to communicate nonverbally in any way. The game
will pause at certain stages of completion, and further instructions will be displayed.
Please read these instructions carefully. The team will need to make decisions in
response to these instructions. During this time, you are allowed to talk to your
teammates. For confidentiality reasons you are only to refer to each other by your
alias names. It will be valuable to use this time to discuss strategies for solving
the puzzle. Once the game continues, you are no longer allowed to talk to your
teammates. 
^
We wish you all the best of luck on your most pressing mission.
Do you understand these instructions?